---
Session Date: 2/16/2025
---
- [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] talks to two horses in the [[Wizard of Wines Winery]]'s stable named Humphry and Rolph. They're hungry.
- [[Davian Martikov|Davian]] reveals the druids stole one of three pinecone-sized magic green crystals that allow grapes to grow in [[Barovia]]. Another was stolen a few weeks ago by [[Baba Lysaga]] who lives near [[Berez]], and the last has been missing for over ten years. Each crystal allows a different variety of grape to grow. He led an unsuccessful counteroffensive against the druids to recover the gem and failed, and the recent takeover of the [[Wizard of Wines Winery|winery]] was in retaliation to that.
- [[Davian Martikov|Davian]] further reveals the druids camp near [[Yester Hill]]. Also, ravens are the symbol of House Martikov, and the ones that helped us in the fight were likely the ones living in the [[Wizard of Wines Winery|winery]].
- [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] and the "chief" druid conduct diplomatic negotiations through Humphry, since the druid doesn't speak common well. This, needless to say, is challenging, but eventually we learn the druids are trying to use the crystal to grow "a tree that will kill us all". [[Arden]] contemplates whether or not this makes them evil and therefore makes it okay to kill them. When asked if the druids are friends of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]], they respond "he is the ancient, he is the land".
- the chief druid casts thunderwave and is killed by [[H of H]]. Meanwhile, [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]] sneaks away to the basement to chug wine. [[Arden]] lays on hands and sobers him up.
- [[H of H]] notices glass vials shattered near the big wine casks. [[Davian Martikov|Davian]] says they're not his, so it seems the druids poisoned the vats. No other wine is likely safe, say for six barrels and scant bottles held in the cellar.
- [[Arden]] executes the remaining druids and asks [[Davian Martikov|Davian]] how many to expect at the camp. He says there are many.
- the next day [[H of H]] purifies all the wine, and the party sets off to scout around [[Yester Hill]] with the plan to send [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] in invisably to scout further when we get close.
- [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] hears the following as a whisper on the wind: "Long have I waited for one who is worthy. My spear hungers for blood. Retrieve it, and rule these mountains in my stead, just like the mighty warriors from the early days of the Whispering Wall."
- [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] finds a 50 foot statue of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] made of tightly-woven twigs. Unrelated, he also feels a pull on his consciousness toward some other location. There's also an axe embedded in an evil-looking, bleeding tree, which is probably where the chief druid's staff came from.
- the sensation pulls [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] towards a cairn of black rocks, similar to many others that encircle the hill. In the cairn, a moldy skeleton clutches a spear. He takes it using gloves, and senses a presence that is pleased its been taken.
- [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] takes the axe from the tree, causing many [[Vine Blight|Vine Blights]], [[Needle Blight|Needle Blights]], and [[Twig Blight|Twig Blights]] to spring to life. He avoids being restrained by an entangling growth spell and begins to flee, dropping prone to avoid needle-fire (earning her a [[Tactics Guy Points|Tactics Guy Point]]) and eventually escaping back to the group.
- [[H of H]] identifies the spear as an ancient blood spear, a powerful weapon that grants temporary hitpoints on kills. It was once wielded by a ruthless chieftian long before the age of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] who shared many qualities with [[Vampyr|vampyres]] without being one. [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] opts to wield it.
- [[H of H]] also identifies the axe as a magic battleaxe that deals extra damage to plants and hurts wielders of non-good alignment. [[Arden]] opts to wield it.
- the party plans to head to [[Berez]] via [[Vallaki]] to meet with [[Baba Lysaga]] and hopefully get a look at the crystal she took from the [[Wizard of Wines Winery|winery]] so we can locate object on the one at [[Yester Hill]].
- around 2pm we arrive at the offshoot of the road discovered in a prior session. [[H of H]] uses augery to determine if going down the path is a good idea and the spell returns nothing.
- we tread down the path and 30 minutes later find a sepulchral home. On a 10-foot granite cube is a moss-covered dragon statue. We note it for later and continue back to [[Vallaki]].
- we arrive at [[Vallaki]] at dusk and are let in. We return to the [[Blue Water Inn]] and find many joyously drinking wine. 
- [[Father Lucian Petrovich|Father Petrovich]] is also there and has been waiting for us. He says the bones of [[St. Andral]] which protect [[St. Andral's Church]] have gone missing.
- We end the session there, planning next steps in the interim