---
Session Date: 1/19/2025
---
- we enter [[Vallaki]] and seek knowledge from the first locals we see on where to stay, who point us to the [[Blue Water Inn]]
- two young men who look similar to each other are speaking to a strange-looking dwarf in a mask. The men are asking the figure for adventuring stories, which are happily supplied.
- the bar is tended by [[Danika Dorakova]], who suggests [[Urwin Martikov|her husband]] may have interest in speaking with us
- [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] asks [[Danika Dorakova|Danika]] where the nearest post office is. She says he may need to speak with the encampment of [[Vistani]] outside of the city to get mail outside the city, though they may rip us off.
- [[H of H]] and [[Arden]] go to speak with the tale-telling dwarf, who introduces himself as [[Dain Lightbringer]]. The men he previously spoke to are [[Nikolai Wachter]] and [[Carter Wachter]], sons of [[Fiona Wachter]].
- [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] says that [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] believes [[Vallaki]] would be better off under [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s control
- The next morning we find a note on [[Viscero]]'s pillow explaining that his mentor insisted he take his journey alone, and that he has gone on his way.
- [[Arden]] convinces [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] that the [[Adrian's Remote Guild of Leathercrafting Excellence]] is likely a scam. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] breaks down in tears realizing he's spent the past 18 years of his life mailing away all his best work.
- The gang goes to the market and sells most of their treasure to [[Balthazaar]], a local shopkeep with fair prices
- we then head to an [[Church of Vallaki|old stone church]], which looks fairly similar to the [[Church of the Village of Barovia]], though more well maintained. [[Arden]] and [[H of H]] sense that this is a holy place, much more so than in the [[Village of Barovia]]. The priest is a 40 to 50 year old man named [[Father Lucian Petrovich]], [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] knew his father. He says he will shelter [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] for as long as she likes, and we part amicably.
- we head back to the [[Blue Water Inn]] to speak with [[Urwin Martikov]]. He seems to be tending bar and running the kitchen. He mentions a shipment of wine from the [[Wizard of Wines Winery]] has been delayed, and requests we check up on it.
- [[Urwin Martikov|Urwin]] also says that [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] "would rather serve the devil than a madman", referring to [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich]]. Supposedly her family has ties to [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]], and that many people support her over [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|Baron Vallakovich]] as burgomaster of [[Vallaki]].
- while the party waits for [[Urwin Martikov|Urwin]] to serve some food a strange, colorful half-elf enters, who [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] recognizes but has never spoken to. He approaches and introduces himself as [[Rictavio]], a carnival ringmaster without acts. He mentions that [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|Baron Vallakovich]] throws carnivals that have mandatory attendance for all in the city, and that any who disrupt it are put in the stocks. His slogan is "All Will Be Well".
- We head to the [[Burgomaster of Vallaki's Mansion]], a walled, aged compound. Many different people are bringing piles of sticks inside. We knock on the door and a maid takes us to see [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]], leaving us in a room while she checks on him. We wait 20 minutes before she returns to take us.
- [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] plans to build a giant wicker sun in a few days and set it ablaze for his next carnival. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] has an unproductive conversation with his dogs. He believes that if he can foster enough happiness, by any means necessary, then [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] will have no power in [[Vallaki]].
- when asked about why he doesn't silence [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] he stammers and makes weak excuses about her having ties that make her difficult to dismiss. [[Arden]] mentions we'd like to speak with her and [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] goes cold, telling us not to "rile her up".
- we leave and head to the [[Wachter House]] to meet with [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]. The house is "disgusted with itself, and hates what it has become". A servant cautiously greets us at the door, questions us, and eventually lets us in to meet with her.
- [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] says [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] won't touch her because he's afraid of her, and any retribution [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] may bring upon him. She is openly pro-[[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]], and claims not to hide this from anybody. She feels the only reason anyone supports [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] is because he has a claim to the position through birthright.
- [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] tells us of [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]]'s henchman, [[Izek]], a strong and powerful combatant. Should we remove [[Izek]] from the picture she believes she can depose [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]]. [[Arden]] senses a fiend from below the room we're speaking with her in, though nothing from her directly.
- we head back to meet with [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] again. [[Arden]] blows his clerical load all over him in an attempt to get him to "chill the fuck out", which kind of works but also maybe creates a secret police and conversion camps.
- we go out of town to meet with the camp of [[Vistani]], who are not permitted inside the city. We meet with [[Kasimir Velikov]], one of a clan of dark elves under the watch of the [[Vistani]]. He calls [[Rahadin]] a "terrible man", a centuries-long servant of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]], and murderer several times over.
- when we go to meet with the [[Vistani]] we see [[Arrigal]] and another, [[Luvash]], whipping a boy bloody, [[Alexi]]. [[Arabelle]], [[Luvash]]'s seven year-old daughter, was under [[Alexi]]'s watch and has since gone missing. We agree to help look for her in exchange for some potions that supposedly allow us to leave [[Barovia]].
- [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] talks to the horses and learns some fat slob put [[Arabelle]] in a sack and left. The session ends with us heading back to town to prepare for the search.