---
Session Date: 9/15/2025
---
- the Roc attacks. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] polymorphs it into a snail before it can do anything and [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] sprints back to the [[Amber Temple]] with it. He critically yeets it at the statue in the main room from the front door and the Roc bursts free from its snail form, utterly ruining the wizard in the statue's day.
- [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] rejoins the party and [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] wakes up soon after. She says the dark god who wants to be freed is an arch devil that might be able to free [[Barovia]] from the clutch of the greater beings that feed on [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s evil. [[H of H]] recalls that devils are lawful and magically bound by their word whereas demons are not. We agree to leave it as a backup plan if absolutely necessary and continue to [[Castle Ravenloft]].
- along the way [[H of H]] notices something flying above us and [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] snipes it with a firebolt. It lives and flees. [[H of H]] realizes after the fact it was a raven, and a bit later two ravens appear again and change shape into [[Urwin Martikov]] and a woman we don't recognize. [[Urwin Martikov|Urwin]] introduces her as [[Muriel Vinshaw]]. They explain they are [[Wereraven|wereravens]], are part of [[The Keepers of the Feather]], and confirms the [[Druid|druids]] were able to complete their ritual and a tree monster toppled the walls of [[Krezk]] which is now overrun with [[Wolfman|werewolves]]. The [[Wizard of Wines Winery|winery]] is also flattened now, and [[Adrian Martikov]] is dead.
- we long rest, planning to send [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] and [[Kasimir Velikov|Kasimir]] into the crypts on a stealth mission while everyone else forms a distraction by the main gates. We long rest successfully and split up the next morning.
- The distraction party is eventually pursued by [[Vampyr Spawn|vampyr spawn]] and combat ensues. They are swiftly defeated and we end the session there.