---
Session Date: 9/21/2025
---
- While the rest of the party is running their distraction [[Kasimir Velikov|Kasimir]] and [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] turn invisible and fly into the top spire of [[Castle Ravenloft]]. Where the crystal heart used to be is now a small glass object about the size of a bowling ball.
- they sneak past [[Escher]] and head to the teleporter room. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] pushes the violet orb into in and commands the guards to "teleport", which works.
- after much, much effort the two manage to push open the stone slab into the crypts and find the one labeled "[[Patrina Velikovna]]—Bride". It's filled with various coins of all demarcations with the ghost of a dusk elf hovering above them. It begins to unleash a wail but [[Kasimir Velikov|Kasimir]] intervenes, reaches into her ghost, and resurrects her. She's disoriented but able to carry on and the three of them travel back to the teleporter and successfully teleport to [[Krezk]].
- meanwhile, [[Urwin Martikov|Urwin]] tells the rest of the party that the second group of [[Vampyr|vampyres]] is no longer pursuing us. We successfully manage to make it back under tree cover and undetected and wait for word from [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] and [[Kasimir Velikov|Kasimir]]. After some time [[Muriel Vinshaw|Muriel]] comes back and tells us she still hasn't heard from either of them. We safely make our way to [[Krezk]] over the next couple hours, hoping to hear from them along the way.
- [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]], [[Kasimir Velikov|Kasimir]], and [[Patrina Velikovna|Patrina]] arrive in [[Clovin Belview|Clovin]]'s bedroom, which is empty. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] turns invisible and sneaks downstairs to see if its safe and eavesdrops on a conversation [[The Abbot]] is having with an unknown, grizzled man about supplies for the occupying forces, which [[The Abbot]] is slow to provide. They then sneak out of [[Abbey of St. Markovia|The Abbey]] and wait in the woods for the main party to meet them, which we eventually do.
- [[Kasimir Velikov|Kasimir]] and [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] cast fly and invisibility on [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] and [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]], who fly back to [[Abbey of St. Markovia|The Abbey]] to deliver the wedding dress to [[The Abbot]]. Upon receiving it [[The Abbot]] is thankful but says we have angered [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] too much for this original plan to work, and that he will need to wait 100 years for [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] to calm down. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] then asks if [[The Abbot]] would instead, as reward for the dress, give us some ability to cast a greater restoration effect, and [[The Abbot]] leaves to attempt it. 
- After [[The Abbot]] leaves the corpse bride, [[Vasilka]], speaks telepathically to [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] with [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]]'s voice, saying that she is able to connect with this body as the resemblance to [[Tatyana]] is strong and that she would be able to assist us in our final fight against [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] if she were there. [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] and [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] then kidnap [[Vasilka]] and fly out of [[Abbey of St. Markovia|The Abbey]], return to the others, and fill them in.
- [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] and, by proxy, [[Sergei von Holtz|Sergei]] tell us some more information:
	- the old wizard in the [[Amber Temple]] should be healed with caution
	- souls cannot escape [[Barovia]], and sometimes the number of bodies exceed the number of souls available
	- who we knew as [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] was the latest body housing [[Tatyana]]'s soul, who now speaks to us through the body of [[Vasilka]]
	- [[Izek Strazni|Izek]]'s hatred will likely continue to fuel his reincarnation
- we argue for several hours about what to do next and finally settle on going back to the [[Amber Temple]] to talk to the ancient wizard.