---
Session Date: 6/22/2025
---
- [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] asks about [[Emil Toranescu|Emil]], and [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] provides little new information. It was a "formality" to keep him prisoner, and [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] says he will have difficulty being out on his own.
- [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] pesters [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] with questions until he gives up and leaves the dinner, taking the hostages with him. [[Escher]] stays behind and offers to give a tour of [[Castle Ravenloft]].
- [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] goes to speak to the organist only to learn it's an illusion. He then asks that [[Escher]] show us his favorite part of the castle, and he leads us three floors upstairs to a dark landing. [[Escher]]warns us not to step on the carpet or a trapdoor in the floor, and the eyes of a portrait of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]seem to track us as we move through the room. Through a door in the landing is [[Escher]]'s lounge, which also connects to our rooms for the night.
- [[Arden]] inexplicably and permanently becomes Finnish.
- [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] asks if [[Escher]] burns in the sunlight through the windows, and he replies that the sunlight in [[Barovia]] does not harm [[Vampyr|vampyres]] because "[[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] is the land" and it would be silly if he could be harmed in his own domain.
- Books in [[Escher]]'s study, among others:
	- Embalming: The Lost Art
	- Life Among the Undead: Learning to Cope
	- Castle Building 101
	- Goats of the Ballanock(?) Mountains
- We explore our quarters for the night, which contains a single bed, two divans, and a small closet-like space with an iron hook on the wall. [[H of H]] notices a trapdoor in the ceiling of the closet. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] casts fly and crits a lockpicking check to open the door and peeks inside, finding a room full of strange labeled bottles and an ancient women. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] disguises herself as [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] and flies into the room, asking "how goes the progress?". She responds that progress has been slow, but that they're doing their best and are still collecting ingredients. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] continues to ask questions but only confuses her.
- [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] continues to explore a bit but ends up back in [[Escher]]'s chambers, still disguised as [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]. She asks [[Escher]] why he isn't cleaning the stables, as it was one of [[Rahadin]]'s daily tasks, and he leaves. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] regroups with everyone else.
- We go to the witch's room as ourselves and are told to leave, lest her and her cats "have their way with us". We continue to explore lower floors looking for an entrance into the tallest tower of the castle. On the floor below [[Escher]]'s lounge there's an ornately-carved door flanked by dark human-like figures. As [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] tries to open the door the figures attack. They turn out to be sentient pools of rats and pose no threat, but [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] loses a [[Tactics Guy Points|Tactics Guy Point]] for spending two turns of combat preparing and then crit failing a persuasion check against them.
- Through the door is a decrepit, dust-ridden wedding banquet hall including a cake with a figure of [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]]. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] takes the figure as a reference for the wedding dress commission.
- North of the banquet room is a highly-polished and ornate lounge with a painting of [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] above a burning hearth. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] pockets a book on fine wines to give to [[The Martikovs]] later.
- West of the lounge is an ornate bedroom, with a woman in the master bed. Her name is [[Gertruda]], and she tells us it's [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s bedchambers. She says she's been here for a few weeks, that she never wants to go back to her mother [[Mad Mary]], and that she is 15 years old. She has not yet been turned, but hopes she will be soon.
- We head back to the banquet hall and explore the room west of it. Inside is a iron tub full of blood. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] probes at it with a sword, and a blood-soaked creature shoots up to the ceiling and begins to scuttle away. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] and [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] take pot shots at them to little effect, and it shoots towards curtains at the south of the room. We follow after it into a room lined with iron hooks and hanging formalwear, but oddly the creature is nowhere to be seen. [[Arden]] senses an undead presence in the banquet room but nothing else.
- North of the lounge is a hallway leading to a T-junction. Right of the junction is a large circular room lined with spiraling staircases. Left of the junction is a long hallway with a collapsed ceiling and many alcoves. Each alcove contains a life-sized human statue frozen in terror. They appear to be heroes of some sort though we don't recognize them specifically. At the end of the hallway is a staircase leading down.
- We head back to the rat room and descend the stairs, still looking for a way into the tallest spire of the castle. Through the door on the platform below is a dusty, cluttered, scroll-filled room. An old man crouches over a seemingly endless scroll, penning what appears to be an detailed ledger of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s finances. He rejects all attempts at conversation, and we pass through the room to the other side.
- The scroll room leads into an immense chamber lit dimly by light from the courtyard, with twin staircases to the north and double doors to the east. A large wooden throne sits atop a marble dais, facing south away from the majority of the room and pointed towards a barren wall.
- Through the double doors is a thin hallway. Another set of double doors is immediately to the east, and a floating skeleton rests on wooden pegs to the north and south.
- Through the second set of double doors is a long, wide hallway filled with a soft, low moan. We continue through the room and hear a scraping sound of stone against stone and the squeaking of a bat from above. A vampiric figure descends on us from above and behind us, chuckling. [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] pops a rage before we all realize it's just a jumpscare trap.
- Through the doors at the end of the jumpscare hallway is a balcony overlooking the castle's chapel. Two ornate thrones are positioned in the center of the balcony, looking over the chapel's altar. A flight of steps to the west wind downward. A cloaked figure is faintly visible at the altar, unmoving. 
- We head down the steps leading to the chapel proper. The hallway is flanked by two large stone statues but they remain motionless as we pass through. Dim light filtered by stained glass illuminates the chapel, reveling bats resting near the top of the 90ft ceiling. From this angle we see two stooped figures in the thrones above, unmoving. A silver statuette rests on the altar near the cloaked figure. A black mace lies on the floor at the altar's foot. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] prods at the cloaked figure to no avail. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] picks up the mace with mage hand. [[H of H]] identifies the mace as a Mace of Terror, which [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] takes. We end the session there planning to continue exploring next session.