---
Session Date: 3/4/2025
---
- we go to speak to [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] about [[Izek]]'s interest in [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]]. He asks us to be a part of the opening procession in tomorrow's festival, and claims no knowledge of [[Izek]]'s actions. He further inquires about the fight with the [[Vampyr Spawn]] and [[Arden]] praises the work of his guards in helping fight them off.
- [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] asks who was sheltering the spawn and [[Arden]] persuades him to let [[Henrik van der Voort|Henrik]] walk with us in tomorrows procession as a symbol of hope for the community, which will hopefully prevent [[Henrik van der Voort|Henrik]] getting tortured by [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] in the meantime. [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] also insists [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] stay with him for her protection, [[Arden]] says he'll ask her if she wants to.
- After helping [[Henrik van der Voort|Henrik]] clean up the ruins of his house for some time we hear screams and follow them to the town square. A [[Hell Hound]] is wreaking havoc but we're able to defeat it in short order. No one nearby is sure where it came from.
- we go back to [[Blinsky Toys]] to steal the doll of [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]]. After much debate about strategy [[Arden]] and [[H of H]] go in to cover [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] entering invisibly behind them. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] is able to steal the doll without [[Gadof Blinsky|Blinsky]] noticing.
- We return to [[St. Andral's Church]] to stay with [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] for the night, however [[Father Lucian Petrovich|Father Petrovich]] tells us city guard came to collect her an hour ago.
- we go back to [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] to ask where he's keeping [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]], but he claims no knowledge of the event. When we inquire about [[Izek]] he mentions he is upstairs and calls him down. [[Izek]] also claims no knowledge of the event, and when pressed about why he had been commissioning dolls of her says only that the dolls are merely of his "ideal woman" and that he had never met or knew of [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] prior to her arrival in [[Vallaki]] a few days ago. We plan to scour the streets and ask anyone who we can find if they've seen the guards travelling with [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]], but fear it may be too late and that they may be well on their way to [[Castle Ravenloft]].