---
Session Date: 2/23/2025
---
- we head to the [[St. Andral's Church]] to speak with [[Father Lucian Petrovich|Father Petrovich]] in more detail about the missing bones. He says no one else knew about the bones except an altar boy, [[Yeska]], who admits he told someone about the bones but won't reveal who. Another altar boy, [[Milivoj]], works as the gravedigger/grave tender and is known to have an unpleasant demeanor. [[Father Lucian Petrovich|Father Petrovich]] suspects [[Yeska]] told [[Milivoj]], who then stole the bones.
- [[Father Lucian Petrovich|Father Petrovich]] is hesitant to tell [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|Baron Vallakovich]] about the disappearance so soon before the next festival, and asks we follow up with [[Milivoj]] in the morning. We bring [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] and [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]]back with us to the [[Blue Water Inn]] for their protection in the meantime. We long rest and prepare for the next day.
- We head to [[St. Andral's Church]] to speak with [[Milivoj]]. He claims no knowledge of the missing bones, but [[H of H]] suspects he knows more than he is letting on. After some persuasion, he admits he took the bones to the coffin maker in town, [[Henrik van der Voort]], who offered him 50 gold in exchange for the bones, which he planned to use to feed his family. [[Arden]] gives him 5 gold and thanks him for the information, promising not to tell [[Father Lucian Petrovich|Father Petrovich]].
- We head to [[Henrik van der Voort|Henrik]]'s shop to interrogate him. He speaks through the door that he's closed forever, so [[Arden]] uses his new magic axe to try and break down his door, which he obliterates.
- Intimidated, he insists we keep our voices down and says the [[Vampyr|vampyres]] that made him do this are upstairs with the bones. There are several of them, with more coming as time passes, but they're presumably asleep given the early morning hours.
- [[Arden]] casts protection from evil and good on [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] before she turns invisible and attempts to recover the bones from [[Henrik van der Voort|Henrik]]'s bedroom wardrobe. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] encounters a single vampire but hides, flawlessly reclaims the bones and a small bag of valuables, and escapes. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] sets the house ablaze, and after some time many [[Vampyr Spawn]] begin crawling out the windows, screaming. They don't seem to be affected by the sunlight.
- we defeat the [[Vampyr|vampyres]] at the cost of some town guards. [[Arden]] gives an incredible speech to the surrounding townsfolk to bolster moral. [[Izek]] approaches and refers to us as "[[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]]'s new favorites". When he sees [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] his eyes widen, and he inquires as to her identity. He insists she come with him under his protection, but she opts to remain with us. He leaves, clearly annoyed.
- we give [[Henrik van der Voort|Henrik]] 50 gold as compensation for his house burning down and head to [[St. Andral's Church]] to deliver the bones and speak with [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] more privately. On our way, we notice a cloaked figure tailing us.
- [[Father Lucian Petrovich|Father Petrovich]] greets us and we deliver the bones to him. It comes up that his wife is [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]]'s wife, and that his nephew, her son, is unusually angsty for a man of his young age. Her daughter has not been seen for some time, thought to be suffering of some mental illness.
- we short rest to recover and begin to head to the [[Blue Water Inn]], hoping to send an invisible [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] to follow the cloaked figure if it continues to tail us. We go to the market and split up, planning to meet up at the inn later so [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] can see who specifically he follows. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] notices the tail following [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] specifically.
- [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] notices a toy store called [[Blinsky Toys]] and heads in. It has the slogan "Is no fun? Is no Blinsky". Inside is a man, [[Gadof Blinsky]], eating a moth-eaten jester's cap with a monkey, [[Piccolo]] on his shoulder. He has the following toys:
	- headless doll with sack of heads
	- miniature gallows with a hanged man doll
	- a set of nesting dolls that get older as they get smaller, the smallest being a mummified corpse
	- a mobile of bats with flapping wings
	- a merry-go-round of wolves chasing children
	- a ventriloquists doll that looks like [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]
	- a doll that looks remarkably like [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]]
- [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] inquires about the [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] doll, and [[Gadof Blinsky|Blinsky]] mentions its a commission from [[Izek]] when he has been refining for several months. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] tries to buy the doll but [[Gadof Blinsky|Blinsky]] insists its not for sale, so he instead buys the mobile and the ventriloquists doll.
- [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] leaves and leads the tail into a trap set by [[Arden]]. The tail asks why we didn't kill [[Izek]] when we had the chance, even though we were in public and surrounded by a crowd. They tell us that if we don't act soon action will be taken, which we may not like. He also says we must pick a side in this battle, and that remaining neutral is not an option. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] breaks the head off the [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] doll and gives it to the tail as "a gift for [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]". He leaves, and we end the session there.