---
Session Date: 3/9/2025
---
- [[Arden]] suspects [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] is behind [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]]'s disappearance. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] and [[H of H]] go to the western gate of [[Vallaki]] to ask if a party of five had left, [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] and [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] take the eastern gate, and [[Arden]] remains with [[Izek]] to inquire further about which of his guard may have done the kidnapping, if any.
- neither the guards at the eastern or western gate had seen a large party leave the city in the past two hours. Meanwhile, [[Arden]] oversees [[Izek]] address his guards, one of whom seems to be more uneasy than the others. [[Arden]] subtly points out the individual to [[Izek]] who then bluntly calls him forward in front of everyone and demands he say what he know. After much stammering he admits he saw a group of guards headed to the northern gate, which we previously neglected given it only leads to [[Lake Zarovich]].
- [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]], [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]], and [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] go to the northern gate to investigate while [[Arden]] and [[H of H]] remain with [[Izek]]. The guards say they haven't seen anyone go through, implying its very likely [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] is still in the city somewhere and is just being held captive somewhere. Meanwhile, [[Arden]] and [[H of H]] press the nervous guard further, who tries to flee but is immediately restrained. He spits in [[Arden]]'s face, saying "fuck this city, and fuck the monarchy".
- [[Arden]] takes a shot in the dark implying he knows the guard is working for [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] and notices the guard try and stifle a reaction. After being pressed further the guard rants about how, though [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] is known to be evil, he has never made his life directly worse in the same way [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] has. [[Izek]] takes him away to a private holding cell for "situations such as these".
- when we ask [[Izek]] for his help in raiding [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]'s house he says they're under strict orders from [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] to not interfere with [[The Wachters]] in any way. We go with [[Izek]] to speak with him, and he remains adamant we not interfere lest we bring [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s wrath upon [[Vallaki]].
- we privately ask [[Izek]] for his help regardless and he says he can't help directly, but will do so indirectly if possible. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] asks him if he knows anything about the interior of [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]'s house, and while he doesn't he does say that [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]'s sons would and that they're likely drinking at the [[Blue Water Inn]] as they often are this time of night.
- [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] goes off solo to investigate [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]'s house invisibly while the rest of the party goes to the [[Blue Water Inn]]. [[Karl Wachter|Karl]] and [[Nikolai Wachter|Nikolai]] are there and well in their cups already and [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] heads over to regale them with redacted stories of our adventures thus far.
- After half an hour [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] arrives invisibly at the [[Blue Water Inn]] somewhat out of breath. She says [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]'s cellar is full of undead and has the trappings of an infernal summoning ritual likely requiring a sacrifice. [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] suggests [[Karl Wachter|Karl]] and [[Nikolai Wachter|Nikolai]] head home and offers to escort them, which they accept.
- [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] and [[Arden]] take [[Nikolai Wachter|Nikolai]] and [[Karl Wachter|Karl]] upstairs to their rooms with [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] following invisibly behind. They hear scratching coming from behind one of the doors, and when [[Arden]] asks if they have a dog they laugh heavily and say "more like a cat".
- [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] calls up from downstairs asking if [[Nikolai Wachter|Nikolai]] and [[Karl Wachter|Karl]] are okay, they respond saying their friend [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] had helped them home. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] fails to lockpick one of the other doors but then [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] crits, revealing a bedroom with a dead man in it likely under the effect of gentle repose. He looks remarkably like [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]'s husband, who we've heard died several years ago. Inside the bedroom's closet is a black cloak similar to the ones [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] saw the basement cultists wear and a large locked iron chest. [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] miraculously is able to unlock it and bypasses a poison dart trap in the process. Inside the chest is a pile of bones appearing to come from a single skeleton and an [[Tome of Strahd|ancient handwritten book]] emblazoned with [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s crest.
- The book appears to be a handwritten log of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s earliest years in [[Barovia]]. It seems he and his family came to [[Barovia]] to unjustly conquer in the name of an otherwise just god. During their conquest [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] fell in love with a local, [[Tatyana]], but his affections went unrequited in part due to his age. [[Tatyana]] instead fell for his brother, [[Sergei]], which enraged [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]. [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] then killed [[Sergei]] in a pact to obtain eternal youth and win over [[Tatyana]], but instead she fled from him and threw herself from [[Castle Ravenloft]] presumably to her death, though her body was never recovered. [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] now suffers the "eternal youth" of his pact as a [[Vampyr]], vulnerable only to the sun's light and a "cursed sword" that [[Sergei]] brought. He also mentions a stake through the heart will not kill him, though it will keep him in place for a time.
- We explore [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]'s house further and eventually enter into the parlor room, finding [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] and the individual that had previously tailed [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] inside. We demand she tell us where [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] is, but she does not. We then say we'll kill her husband for real if she doesn't comply, and she laughs. Fed up, [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] eldritch blasts [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] and initiates combat and [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] just straight up kills her. [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]'s [[Quasit]] escapes.
- The person who had previously tailed [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]], [[Ernst Larnak]], says [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] had just made a deal with [[Izek]] where he could take [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] but had to leave [[Vallaki]] right away, and that [[Izek]] is already on his way. He also says [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] is being held in a secret room in the house's library.
- Upstairs, [[Arden]] unlocks the door we previously heard scratching from and reveals a plain bedroom only containing a bed with straps on it. A woman in a tattered nightgown scrambles back, hissing "kitty doesn't know you, kitty doesn't like the smell of you". [[Arden]] opts not to deal with this right now and closes the door.
- The house's library is in the final room upstairs, which is full of cats. [[Ernst Larnak|Ernst]] points out the secret door behind a bookshelf. Meanwhile [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] tries to speak to the cats but is met with hostility. [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] is inside the secret room, along with an iron chest. [[Arden]] quickly explains the situation and the party, [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]], and [[Ernst Larnak|Ernst]] hide in the dead husband's bedroom. We here the sounds of scuffling abound the house for a while, but eventually everything goes silent. We take a very easy long rest and level up to level 5.