---
Session Date: 4/27/2025
---
- we begin fighting [[Izek Strazni|Izek]] and eventually manage to flee. [[Izek Strazni|Izek]] goes back inside [[Argynvostholt]], and the party decides he was probably an illusion caused by the figure of a wizard we'd previously seen upstairs.
- we return to [[Vallaki]], long rest, and then head for the [[Village of Barovia]] in the morning. Along the way we stop at the [[Durst Windmill]] and are warned by a raven that something that consumes children is inside. [[Arden]] senses three fiends, one on the main floor and two above.
- We enter and begin to fight what turns out to be three [[Night Hag|Night Hags]]. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] provides moral support from the first floor while the rest of the party takes them out. [[Arden]] temporarily becomes a frog.
- We continue to the [[Village of Barovia]] and come across [[Rudolph van Richten|Rictavio]]'s cart, which has some kind of beast inside. We follow a set of tracks from the cart into the woods and end up near a [[Vistani]] camp. [[Rudolph van Richten|Rictavio]] is there, watching, and we subtly make our presence known.
- In talking with [[Rudolph van Richten|Rictavio]] it becomes clear he is actually [[Rudolph van Richten]] in disguise. He reveals he is hunting down all [[Vistani]] as a means of stopping [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] from receiving their reports. He also reveals that [[The Martikovs|Martikovs]] are [[Wereraven|wereravens]], and are members of an order that secretly opposes [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] called [[The Keepers of the Feather]].
- Additionally, [[Rudolph van Richten|Van Richten]] shows us the magic ring he uses to maintain his half-elf disguise, and mentions the [[Night Hag|Night Hags]] we killed at the [[Durst Windmill]] were selling highly-addictive pastries to residents of the [[Village of Barovia]].
- [[Arden]] convinces [[Rudolph van Richten|Van Richten]] to stop his pursuit of the [[Vistani]] as long as we are directly pursuing the demise of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]], though he would continue upon our likely deaths. However he was unwilling to accompany us to [[Castle Ravenloft]] due to the risk his presence would be revealed to [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]].