---
Session Date: 3/16/2025
---
- [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] opens the iron chest in the room [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] was being kept, triggering a poison dart trap. It contains:
	- a silk bag containing 180 electrum
	- a leather bag containing 110 gold
	- a nice wooden pipe, mundane
	- five notarized deeds for parcels of land given by [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] to [[The Wachters]] over four centuries ago
	- a supple leather case containing an unbound manuscript titled "The Devil We Know", authored by [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] stating that devil worship can bring happiness, longevity, and joy
	- a treatise titled "The Grimoire of the Four Quarters" written by [[Devostas]] detailing how he was drawn and quartered but did not die 
	- a pair of red-tinted spectacles. [[H of H]] identifies them as "Summoner's Spectacles" which can be used by a warlock to summon a hellhound.
	- very old letter addressed to [[Lady Lovina Wachter]] from [[Strahd von Zarovich|Lord Vasili von Holtz]] thanking [[Lady Lovina Wachter|Lovina]] for her friendship and hospitality over the years whose handwriting matches the [[Tome of Strahd]], implying [[Strahd von Zarovich|Vasili]] is [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s true name. [[Ernst Larnak|Ernst]] states [[Lady Lovina Wachter|Lovina]] was an ancient ancestor of [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]].
- we pay [[Ernst Larnak|Ernst]] 40 gold for information about the ritual in the basement. He explains that the ritual is bullshit and is just for show in order to convince townsfolk that she does have occult influence. Her "cultists" that work on the ritual have their own followers, which is how her soft power is disseminated throughout the town. Her "proof" was that her quasit, [[Majesto]], would throw money invisibly in the ritual circle. He also says that "The Devil We Know" is essentially propaganda written by [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] for the purpose of running her "cult".
- we pay 10 gold more for information on [[Izek Strazni|Izek]]. 15 years ago when he, full name [[Izek Strazni]], was young he went off on a fishing trip with his father, uncle, and kid sister. On the way back they got attacked by [[Dire Wolf|dire wolves]], one of whom took [[Izek Strazni|Izek]]'s arm clean off. His uncle died fighting the [[Dire Wolf|wolves]], his sister was never seen again, and his parents functionally died of grief, leaving him an orphan. [[Izek Strazni|Izek]] was "adopted" by [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] and worked for him for many years. He was scary even with the missing arm but then got drunk one evening and woke up the next day with the new arm.
- Further, he states that [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]'s daughter, [[Stella Wachter|Stella]] is the crazy lady upstairs. She used to be normal and sweet before going on a date with [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]]'s son [[Victor Vallakovich|Victor]]. [[Victor Vallakovich|Victor]] supposedly also hates his father.
- We pay 50 gold for information [[Ernst Larnak|Ernst]] has on the parade today. He states that the majority of [[Vallaki]]'s citizens are on [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]'s side, and that [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] had organized had organized a "mass absence" from the parade to undermine [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]]'s power after he'd made attendance optional.
- [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] disguises herself as [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] and we exit the house. There are two guards flanking the front door and they're shocked to see "Fiona" alive. One guard immediately runs off, presumably to fetch [[Izek Strazni|Izek]], and [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] crits a performance check to pass off as [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] to the other guard. [[Arden]] explains the cover story that [[Izek Strazni|Izek]] attempted to kill [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] and pin it on us, but that we were able to save her, and demands we be brought to [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] immediately.
- We meet with [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] in his home and he is surprised to see "Fiona" alive. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] crits on her deception to convince [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] of our lie. [[Izek Strazni|Izek]] arrives shortly thereafter and is gobsmacked. After some back and forth "Fiona" tells [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] that it was only [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]]'s influence over [[Izek Strazni|Izek]] that caused him to act so irrationally as to kill her, and [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] calls to have [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] killed as the source of the problem. As planned, [[Izek Strazni|Izek]] jumps to her defense, putting him at odds against [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]].
- [[Izek Strazni|Izek]] screams, claiming this must be an illusion of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]], and strikes "Fiona" down with an axe blow expecting some illusion to be dispelled. Disguise Self, however, does not go away on death, making [[Izek Strazni|Izek]] look insane. [[Arden]] stealthily stabilizes her and [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] plays dead. To further incense [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] to violence [[Arden]] asks why he is so quick to attack [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] when his own son drove [[Stella Wachter|Stella]] to madness. [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] then tells [[Izek Strazni|Izek]] he will have his forgiveness if he kills us all, including [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]], and [[Arden]] responds by saying its [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] who should be killed for all his needless cruelty. [[Izek Strazni|Izek]] responds saying he enjoys being needlessly cruel, and asks [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] that if he kills us all will he be allowed to keep [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]]. He agrees, attacks us, and is swiftly rendered unconscious while [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] flees from sight.
- we speak with the guards outside and set up a trial for us, [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]], and [[Izek Strazni|Izek]] in the town's square. The guards then help us collect [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] from his office and we surrender ourselves to them for purposes of the trial. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] remains in the [[Burgomaster of Vallaki's Mansion]] keeping up her rouse as [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]'s corpse with plans to go find [[Ernst Larnak|Ernst]] and pay him 200 gold to say he retrieved [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]'s body from the [[Burgomaster of Vallaki's Mansion|mansion]] and left it in the [[Wachter House]].
- we're all brought to town square and put on stage to hold trial. We accuse [[Izek Strazni||Izek]] of the double murder of [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]] and [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] acting unjustly and failing to uphold the duties of his office. [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] accuses us of "troublemaking" that lead to all that has happened. [[Izek Strazni|Izek]]'s defense is weak, claiming only that all we say are lies with little support, and is convicted of murder by [[Father Lucian Petrovich|Father Petrovich]] as the identified neutral third party. [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]] is similarly convicted and unseated by a vote of the people after [[Father Lucian Petrovich|Father Petrovich]] recuses himself due to being the brother of [[Baron Vargas Vallakovich|The Baron]]'s wife. [[Victor Vallakovich]] will take over as burgomaster.
- after much back and forth we manage to defend ourselves well enough to avoid exile, and [[Father Lucian Petrovich|Father Petrovich]] determines we may remain as long as we take no further illegal actions.
- right before [[Izek Strazni|Izek]] is executed his arm burst into flame and he makes a break for it. [[Arden]] casts hold person, and the guards swiftly execute him.