---
Session Date: 3/30/2025
---
- [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] wakes up drenched in sweat and steps outside for air. [[H of H]] checks up on her but is rebuffed.
- [[H of H]] casts Remove Curse on [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]]
- on the way out of [[Krezk]] we hear that a woman in the village, [[Dimira Yolensky]], is having a child. However after the birth there is a distinct lack of crying. [[H of H]], as a healer, approaches with [[Arden]] to see if all is okay, and a holy woman says the child is of perfect health. [[Arden]] asks to go in to have [[H of H]] bless the child, and the midwife pulls [[H of H]] aside as says the child has no soul because it is not crying. [[Arden]]'s divine sense detects nothing abnormal.
- We head to go see [[Baba Lysaga]] to investigate the stolen crystal from the [[Wizard of Wines Winery]]. As we travel we see a large dark shape in the sky flying towards the [[Druid]] encampment, trailing flames behind it. We change plans and decided to go fight the doom tree at [[Yester Hill]].
- As we near the top of [[Yester Hill]] we begin to hear chanting, and we opt to circle around to avoid them. However on the other side of the hilltop we encounter a [[Night Mare|large, jet black mare]] with flames for a mane. [[Arden]] senses the mare is a fiend and that there is an undead presence closer to the center of the hilltop. The mare lets out a terrible scream, and we enter initiative.
- [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] shows up and tries to fireball us, but [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] counterspells it. [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] grapples him and stabs him with the blood spear but his flesh pushes the spear back out. [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] then charms [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] with a hypnotic gaze but [[Arden]] temporarily represses it with Calm Emotions. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] steals a glowing gem from a large wicker statue of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]], presumably the stolen gemstone from the [[Wizard of Wines Winery|winery]].
- we escape away from the hill. [[Arden]] beats [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] unconscious to prevent the charm from coming back. We identify the gem and learn it can bestow life to what it is used in, to varying degrees.
- As we attempt to short rest we are accosted by [[Wolf|wolves]], which are swiftly defeated. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] disguises herself as [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] and tells a lone survivor to "Let your brethren know I have no greater enemy in this land than the [[Druid|Druids]] of [[Yester Hill]]."
- We continue to take a circuitous route to the tower to meet with [[Ezmerelda d'Avenir|Ezmerelda]]. En route we find a bundle of clothes secured to a tree, which [[Arden]] speculates are the clothes of a werewolf. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] makes a minor modification to one of the sleeves as a marker in case we run into them later.
- We make it to the dilapidated tower, which is about 80 feet tall. To break out of charm [[Arden]] lets [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] beat him severely until he comes to his senses. We short rest and end the session there.