---
Session Date: 12/22/2024
tags:
  - Summary
---
- Campaign starts with a group of travelers headed through some foggy woods as part of a caravan led by [[Arrigal]]
- at night [[Mercurie Slypher]], [[Arden]], [[H of H]], [[Viscero]], and [[Ellory Vellum]] huddle around a campfire. [[Arrigal]] checks up on them but the night is otherwise uneventful.
- the party wakes up the following morning in woods unlike those they fell asleep at, shrouded in heavy mist with the sound of [[Wolf|wolves]] in the background. The rest of the caravan is nowhere to be found
- after some discussion the party ventures into the woods, finding a worn road
- five hours of travel lead the party to the [[Gates of Barovia]], huge iron gates that open for them and close behind them.
- soon after passing through the gates the party stumbles across a dead courier carrying [[Kolyan Indirovich's Letter]]. The threat of enclosing [[Wolf|wolves]] push the party back to the road.
- further down the road we find two children, [[Rose & Thorn]], in the middle of the road. [[Rose & Thorn|Thorn]] is crying and clutching a doll, and [[Rose & Thorn|Rose]] explains that their parents went into the basement of their house to kill a monster and asks that we rescue their crying baby brother from upstairs. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] opts to stay behind with the children while the others explore the house. 
- The mist from the forest surrounds all except [[The Death House|the house]], [[Rose & Thorn|Rose]] claims entering the mist means death.
- [[Rose & Thorn]] provide little useful information, seemingly unaware of simple details like how to access the basement or what the monster is. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] gets frustrated when a sentient suit of armor attacks the party, to which the children again claim ignorance.
- the party eventually finds the nursery, seeing an infant-sized bundle swaddled in a crib. [[Arden]] wisely searches for and senses a presence in the room. He calls out to it and hears the ghostly response of [[Margaret|the nursemaid]] to not touch the baby and to "avenge me". The party obeys to avoid conflict.
- in the library the party pulls a book on a shelf and reveals a hidden room. Inside the room is a desiccated corpse with darts stuck in it and an old chest. [[H of H]] carefully opens the chest and triggers an interior dart trap, which had presumably already been activated by the corpse. Inside the chest is the deed to the house, a will bequeathing the house to [[Rose & Thorn]], and the [[Death House Letter]]. The letter implies the father had a [[Walter Durst|stillborn son]] out of wedlock with [[Margaret|the nursemaid]] and had been torturing/killing people in an attempt to summon [[Strahd von Zarovich]] and receive immortality. However [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] seems to have instead left the father to their "dark curse", suggesting he is the monster in the house's basement.
- the party eventually discovers a hidden passage leading upstairs, where they find [[Rose & Thorn]]'s bedroom, which contains their skeletons and a perfect miniature replica of the house. The ghosts of [[Rose & Thorn]] appear and seems completely unaware of their likenesses outside with [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]]. They further claim their parents locked them inside their room for their own safety and never returned, and they seem to have starved to death. [[Rose & Thorn|Rose]] possesses [[Arden]] and [[Rose & Thorn|Thorn]] possesses [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]], both seem to maintain their senses.
- [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] runs outside to meet [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]], who is surprised as the children he had been speaking to had recently vanished into thin air. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] implores [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] to leave, but [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] insists they go inside and slay the monster. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]], more afraid of being alone than inside the house, follows [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] inside.
- the session ends with the party descending the staircase to the basement in a room filled with covered furniture. Everyone levels up to Level 2.