---
Session Date: 1/12/2025
---
- the party sets off for [[Vallaki]] and encounters a river after about 15 minutes of travel. The river is clear as blue winter sky with a stone bridge spanning it.
- after another 45 minutes we arrive at a crossroads with old wooden gallows and a small collection of graves. [[H of H]] hears sounds coming from the graves moments before [[Zombie|zombies]]  and [[Ghoul|ghouls]] begin to rise from them. We kill them after way longer than it should have taken and short rest on the gallows platform.
- as we continue to travel we notice a lot of ravens are observing our travel. [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] says it is bad luck to attack a raven.
- further along in the woods we begin to hear howling, and soon find three [[Dire Wolf|dire wolves]]. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] attempts diplomacy and doesn't do a very good job, but does learn that they have orders to kill us specifically. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] commands two to grovel, and [[Viscero]] uses phantasmal force to project an image of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] and convince the remaining one to betray its brethren. They all fall shortly thereafter and we short rest again.
- we find an unmarked shallow grave with a broken wooden doll in it missing a hand and foot. We take it and carry on.
- we come to a stone bridge near the [[Tser Falls]] with four gargoyles decorating it. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] destroys all four from range with eldritch blast and it turns out they were purely ornamental. We safely cross the bridge.
- at the intersection between [[Vallaki]] and [[Castle Ravenloft]] we encounter a black carriage drawn by two black horses, out of which steps [[Rahadin|a dusk elf]]. We hear screams in our minds, but he passes [[Arden]]'s divine sense check. [[Rahadin|The elf]] introduces himself as [[Rahadin]], a servant of [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] and keeper of [[Castle Ravenloft]], offers [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] a safe ride to [[Castle Ravenloft]]. [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] denies the offer and [[Rahadin]] re-enters the carriage, saying he will be waiting should she change her mind. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] talks to the horses about the weather, and names them Lone Star and Free Wheeler.
- we cross through a similar set of gates to the [[Gates of Barovia]] and notice more [[Wolf|wolves]] in the far distance. We proceed, but they slowly begin to close the distance.
- we see the [[Durst Windmill]] in the distance but opt not to investigate, instead continuing further along the road. 10 normal [[Wolf|wolves]] and one [[Dire Wolf]] appear. We roll just so, so badly, but manage to eke out a win.
- further down the road we find a corpse. [[Viscero]] inspects it and determines it has cervical cancer before the body liquifies away. [[H of H]] insists the body looked exactly like her, though no one else agrees.
- [[H of H]] gets stuck in a bear trap. [[Arden]] attempts to free her manually but is unsuccessful, so [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] attempts to break the trap in highly ill-advised fashion by hitting it with an eldritch blast. In doing so she, expectedly, hits [[H of H]] for significant damage and [[Arden]] nearly executes [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] with Rebuke the Violent in reaction. 
- we finally arrive at [[Vallaki]] and end the session