---
Session Date: 3/23/2025
---
- we further investigate [[Lady Lovina Wachter|Lovina]]'s letter and the [[Tome of Strahd]], which appear to be the same age
- [[H of H]], [[Arden]], and [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] use Speak With Dead to talk to [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]'s husband:
	- How did you die?
		- I died of a sickness
	- Is your family protected by [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]?
		- They have a long history, yes
	- Were you involved in the fake cult in the basement?
		- I do not know of any such cult
	- How old is your wife [[Fiona Wachter|Fiona]]?
		- She is 45
	- Whose bones are in the chest?
		- I should not say
- [[Arden]] gives 30 gold to [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]] as we leave for [[Krezk]], telling him he's a good man and knows he will better his life if we works at it. [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]] graciously accepts, seemingly with good intent, and agrees to find [[Arden]] should he ever need help.
- We head to [[Krezk]] with [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]]. In the woods near [[Krezk]] we are met on the road by an older man who asks who we are and where we're headed. [[Arden]] introduces us as travelers headed to [[Krezk]], and the man call for the rest of his men to reveal themselves. They're a group of trappers working out of [[Vallaki]]. As we try to leave, they ask where we think we're going, make a comment about the "bounty on the girl being worth it", transform into [[Wolfman|wolfmen]], and attack. We take them out or route them easily, but [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] fails a con save against an unknown condition. [[Arden]] lays on hands, but its unclear if it did anything. 
- We make it to [[Krezk]] and the gate guards fetch the the burgomaster, [[Dmitri Krezkov]]. [[Dmitri Krezkov|Dmitri]] lets us in, though he still has his reservations.
- [[Krezk]] is a humble smattering of cottages between copses of trees. [[Dmitri Krezkov|Dmitri]] says the village and the [[Abbey of St. Markovia]] tend to keep to their own business, and that many believe [[The Abbot]], name unknown who possesses unnatural youth and has resided in [[Krezk]] for over a century, to be an agent sent by [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] to watch over [[Krezk]].
- we search for an inn but realize there are none and head to the town's shrine instead. The shrine has a pool that shimmers and sparkles even under the dim gray light of the afternoon and a dilapidated gazebo containing a weathered statue of a man with arms extended, as if waiting to be embraced. The statue faces east.
- [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] begins to hear a voice no one else can hear coming from the pool, though she cannot make out the words. [[Arden]] determines the pool is divine and dips his hand in to no effect. As [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] approaches a visage of a handsome youth, kind and noble, appears in the pool. His eyes look sad at first but become more joyful upon seeing [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]], who is looking at him mesmerized. [[Arden]] notices the man looks a bit like [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] and asks if he's [[Sergei von Holtz|Sergei]], but he pays him no mind.  The visage says, "[[Tatyana]], it has been so long, let us be together at last.", and [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] reaches down towards the water. A hand made of water rises out of the pool to meet hers, and begins to slowly pull her into the pool. As she goes under the water she embraces the image of [[Sergei von Holtz|Sergei]] and they look very happy together, and the image begins to fade. No air bubbles come up when she slips below the surface. However, right before it fades, dark cloud coalesce above the shrine and [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s voice angrily booms from the clouds "she...is...mine!" before lightning strikes the pool and destroys the gazebo. As the dust settles the pool no longer seems magical, and [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]] is gone.
- we go to the [[Abbey of St. Markovia|The Abbey]] and are greeted by two odd-looking humanoids, [[Otto Belview]] and [[Zygfrek Belview]], which don't register on [[Arden]]'s divine sense. They're chimera-like combinations of human and animal parts. [[Otto Belview|Otto]] goes to fetch [[The Abbot]]. [[Zygfrek Belview|Zygfrek]] says she and [[Otto Belview|Otto]] guard the gate to [[Abbey of St. Markovia|The Abbey]], and that [[Otto Belview|Otto]] is her cousin. Their chimera-like features appear to be natural and not the result of medical intervention.
- As we approach the courtyard of [[Abbey of St. Markovia|The Abbey]] we see an inscription reading "May her light cure all illness". In the courtyard is another chimera-like humanoid, a well, and several sheds with screams coming from inside. Connected to the courtyard is another room with a man, presumably [[The Abbot]], and woman inside. [[Otto Belview|Otto]] and [[Zygfrek Belview|Zygfrek]] let us in and return to their posts.
- [[Arden]] senses [[The Abbot]] to be celestial, and he and [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] kneel in deference. [[The Abbot]] mentions he has been looking for a wedding dress for the woman, one that should appear as "a typical wedding gown", and offers to take us on a tour.
- On the tour, [[The Abbot]] mentions that the chimera-like humanoids are "his fault". In the belfry is another chimera-like humanoid, [[Clovin Belview]], playing beautiful music on a viol. Down one of the hallways is a series of rooms filled with dozens of chimera-like humanoids guarded by a [[Flesh Golem|flesh golem]].
- When asked about all the chimeras, [[The Abbot]] replies that they once came for help but that things did not go as planned. As we return to the main room we notice that the woman, [[Vasilka]], who bears a resemblance to [[Ireena Kolyana|Ireena]], is hiding stitching below powdered makeup. When asked about the screaming [[The Abbot]] says they "just need more time alone".
- [[Arden]] asks who the "lucky groom" is, and the [[The Abbot]] reveals it's [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]], suggesting that [[The Abbot]] is building [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] a wife. [[The Abbot]] further explains that he came to this land some time ago to honor the legacy of [[St. Markovia]], who served the [[Morning Lord]] and was a beacon of good and healing before she was struck down by [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]. [[The Abbot]] thinks that giving a bride to [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] in the visage of his "lady love" will break his "curse".
- As we retire to our quarters [[The Abbot]] asks we say hi to their other guest, [[Ezmerelda d'Avenir]]. It turns out she is the one [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] travelled to [[Barovia]] with. She's a [[Vistani]] monster hunter specializing in the slaying of [[Vampyr|vampyres]]. She also has a prosthetic metal leg.
- As we catch [[Ezmerelda d'Avenir|Ezmerelda]] up to speed on what we know she mentions she's planning to infiltrate [[Castle Ravenloft]] on a reconnaissance mission. She also mentions that outside of [[Barovia]] [[Vampyr Spawn]] are affected by sunlight but they don't seem to be here, suggesting [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] may not be as weak to sunlight as originally thought.
- [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] asks [[Ezmerelda d'Avenir|Ezmerelda]] whether she has fought any [[Wolfman|wolfmen]] in the past, and what should be done if someone is bitten. She says either a Greater Restoration or Remove Curse spell is required as a cure, and that the affliction will likely settle in with a few weeks.
- We long rest in the guest room of [[Abbey of St. Markovia|The Abbey]] and end the session there.