---
Session Date: 1/26/2025
---
- we begin looking for the "[[Bluto Krogarov|fat slob]]" with the sack that supposedly kidnapped [[Arabelle]]. [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] remembers a fat man that would occasionally drink at the [[Blue Water Inn]]. We go there to speak with [[Urwin Martikov|Urwin]] and [[Danika Martikov|Danika]].
- [[Danika Martikov|Danika]] tells us the man is [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]], a local fisherman fallen on hard times. He insists on fishing every day in [[Lake Zarovich]] despite having no luck. [[Danika Martikov|Danika]] believes he has no friends, and is overall rather unpleasant.
- we go to the northern gate of [[Vallaki]] to wait for [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]]'s return. After some time without his appearance [[Arden]] speaks to some guards and learns he entered the city several hours ago, before we arrived. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] gives him two gold pieces to tell us where he lives, but he doesn't know anything beyond that he is very poor and likely lives in a shack.
- The guard points us to where his home might be and we go there. It's fully dark out when we arrive. [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] attracts some crows with breadcrumbs and asks it where [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]] lives, and it lands on one of the shacks. [[Arden]] knocks several times to no avail, but [[H of H]] hears rustling inside. [[Arden]] calls out, and [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]] eventually responds saying he won't invite us in and "fall for that trick". [[Arden]] kicks down the door and crits an intimidation check. [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]] confesses he stole [[Arabelle]] as a good luck charm to hopefully catch better fish because "[[Vistani]] are lucky". She is hidden in a tree line near [[Lake Zarovich]], and demand [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]] take us to her.
- The guards at the northern gate allow us to leave but say we won't be let back in until morning. After a half hour of travel we arrive at [[Lake Zarovich]]. Its water is perfectly still, and three small rowboats line its shore. [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]] tells us [[Arabelle]] is on the northern shore, and that we'd need to cross the lake to reach her. We lash two of the boats together and set off for the northern shore, which we reach uneventfully.
- [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]] leads us into the woods, but there's no sign of [[Arabelle]]. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] crits a perception check and realizes he's been leading us on a wild goose chase. [[Arden]] confronts him and [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]] demands money in exchange for actually telling us where she is, which we reject. He reveals she's really hidden on the original shoreline and we need to go back across the river, which we do.
- When we arrive, [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]] leads us to where he hid [[Arabelle]]. We have a protracted argument over what to do with him, [[Dain Lightbringer|Dain]] and [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] knock him out a couple times, [[Mercurie Slypher|Mercurie]] suggests force feeding him gold coins, but [[Arden]] protects him from further harm. [[H of H]] gives him a scrap of embroidered cloth as a good luck charm, and we begin moving to the [[Vistani]] camp to deliver [[Arabelle]].
- As we travel we get the sense that we're being watched by something in the woods. [[Arabelle]] mentions this journey is just like a dream she had, and that she occasionally has dreams that line up with what occurs in reality.
- We drop [[Arabelle]] off with [[Luvash]], who is extremely grateful. We accept an ornate rug as a reward, as it turns out the potions that let us leave [[Barovia]] are a scam. He also tells us that [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]] punished the dusk elves ages ago by killing all their women, so all remaining dusk elves in [[Barovia]] are male. He further mentions that [[Vistani]] are occasionally gifted with visions of the future, and that a [[Vistani]] near the [[Village of Barovia]], [[Madam Eva]], is renowned as a skilled fortune teller.
- we go to [[Kasimir Velikov|Kasimir]]'s home to request shelter for the night and are allowed to camp nearby. We sleep through the night.
- In the morning, [[Arden]] takes [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]] to the [[St. Andral's Church]]. [[Father Lucian Petrovich|Father Petrovich]] says he doesn't have space for him now, but suggests taking him to the [[Abbey of St. Markovia]] in [[Krezk]]. Meanwhile the rest of the party travels to the market and notes the stockades have been removed, and that the flyers for the upcoming festival have been altered to say that attendance is "strongly encouraged" vs "mandatory". We sell the rug to [[Balthazaar]] for 750 gold and a magnifying glass.
- [[Bluto Krogarov|Bluto]] reveals he was catching fish as early as a week ago, which calls into question the entire fishing industry in [[Vallaki]], specifically the lack thereof. This naturally derails the session significantly.
- We successfully travel to [[Krezk]] with minimal interruption, taking note of crossroads along the way. At one point a skeletal horse and rider pass us at high speed, but doesn't engage with us.
- [[Arden]] speaks to the guards at the gates of [[Krezk]] and asks for permission to enter, stating we seek the [[Abbey of St. Markovia]]. They leave for 20 minutes and reappear with a well-dressed man, who introduces himself as [[Dmitri Krezkov]], the burgomaster of [[Krezk]]. He tells us he can't admit us into the city, and that the [[Abbey of St. Markovia|abby]] is not accepting new members at this time. [[Ellory Vellum|Ellory]] senses that he is extremely distraught about something.
- [[Dmitri Krezkov|Dmitri]] says that [[Krezk]] is almost completely without wine, and that something must have happened at the [[Wizard of Wines Winery]]. He will permit us into the city if we resolve whatever the issue is. We head off to the [[Wizard of Wines Winery|winery]] to investigate.
- When we arrive, a man in a dark cloak and cowl standing by the tree line beckons us to him. [[Arden]]'s divine sense detects nothing. We approach, and several others appear out of the woods when we get close. The first figure introduces himself as [[Davian Martikov]], and tells us that [[Druid|druids]] have taken over the [[Wizard of Wines Winery|winery]] a bit over a week ago. The session ends with us approaching the [[Wizard of Wines Winery|winery]], triggering 30 masses of vines to grow to humanoid form. We level up to Level 4.